---
title:  Persian Rice (Tahdig)
date:   2020-07-20 16:00:00 -0400
tags: [recipes]
layout: post
image: /images/tahdig1.jpg
---

I have been reading Samin Nosrat's Salt, Fat, Acid, Heat and really liked her Netflix show with the same name.  Also I have been watching lots of Food52 youtube videos.  There is a great episode showing the recipe including chatting in Samin.  

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FCrrQhoeQFk" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Tahdig is a persian crispy rice with great salty, creamy flavor.  I really like preparing with fried
egg over each serving. The rice comes together pretty quickly so it's a great weeknight meal.  The leftovers also are great for a few days.  I usually use a 10 or 12 inch non stick.  Watching the video helps some of the details.  

### Ingredients
- 2 cups basmati rice
- salt (half cup)
- 3 T plain yogurt
- 3 T butter
- 3 T canola oil (neutral)

### Steps
- rinse rice in bowl 5 times until water is clear
- soak in water for 30m
- fill stockpot with 4 quarts of water and boil
- add 1/2 cup to water
- cook rice 5-7m in boiling water
- drain water from rice in a sieve and rinse rice with cold water and drain
- remove 1 cup of rice and combine with yogurt in a small bowl
- melt butter and heat oil in a 10 inch non stick frying pan
- add yogurt/rice mixture and flatten
- add rest of rice mounding gently toward center of pan
- poke 6 holes with handle end of wooden spoon into rice to allow steam to escape
- each 3-4 minutes rotate the pan by a quarter so crust is even
- after 15-20m check under rice to look for a golde crust
- reduce heat to low and cook for 15-20 more minutes
- loosen the edges with a spatula
- flip rice onto a cutting board
- can serve with egg or toppings

