---
title:  "Granola"
date:   2021-05-11 7:00:00 -0400
tags: [recipes,breakfasts]
layout: post
image: /images/granola.jpg
---

For a long time I have used Anna Stockwell's granola recipe from her No Recipe Required series. The recipe is great since you can adjust what you use but keep the ratios equal. The magic ratio is 6 parts dry to 1 part liquid.  I usually do 6 cups dry and 1 cup wet.  For the dry I try to do 2 cups of oats, 1 cup of instant barley, 1 cup of puffed rice, 1/2 cup dried coconut, 1/2 cup pecans, the I like pumpkin seeds, chia seeds, sunflower seeds.  For the wet I like 1/2 cup neutral oil, 1/4 cup maple syrup, 1/4 cup honey.  The assembly is really easy just mixing the wet into the dry with hands until things are combined.  You want to take a taste of the mixture to make sure the flavor is good. I love balancing the sweet with some salt. Once you get the basic recipe down you can improvise with different ingredients like oats and nuts.  After the granola is done adding some dried fruit when the granola is warm.  I like raisins or dried cranberries sliced a little or any kind of dried fruit.  When the granola cools it becomes crispy.

Ana Stockwell Granola No recipe required on youtube
<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_p1x61hk7i4" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

#### Ingredients
##### 6 cups of dry ingredients
* 2c oat
* 1c instant barley
* 1c puffed rice
* 1/2 dried coconut
* 1/2c chopped nuts pecans, walnuts
* 1/2c seeds pumpkin, sunflower, chia
##### 1 cup of wet
* 1/2c neutral oil, canola, coconut
* 1/4c maple syrup
* 1/4c honey or agave
##### spices
* 1t salt
* 1/2t of cinnamon
* 1t vanilla extract
* 1 egg white for wash (optional), makes a little crunchier
* dried fruit, raisin, cranberries (optional)

#### Steps
* preheat oven to 300 degrees F
* add dry ingredentients to a large bowl, mix with hands
* combine wet ingredients into small glass bowl and stir until combined, add egg white (is using)
* pour wet into dry and mix until coated
* add the vanilla, salt, cinnamon or any other spices
* pour onto baking sheet and spread so granola is uniform thickness
* bake for 30-40m, rotating and gently stirring every 10-15m
* when turning golden to brown remove from oven
* stir in dried fruit if using
* let cool completely then tranfer to a jar
