---
title:  "Challah"
date:   2024-02-29 09:30:00 -0400
tags: [recipes,bread]
layout: post
image: /images/challah.jpg
---

Excited to try the challah recipe.  The recipe shows braiding 6 strands.  Watching the video is the best way to figure it out.  For the timing you
can put in fridge to slow down any of the rises.  The recipe makes two loaves.  You can form the loaf then freeze.  To defrost leave out for 3-4 hours
and allow to rise.  Brush with egg then bake.


video on youtube
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TxKQIOeR95I" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

#### Ingredients
- 11g (3 3/4t) active dry yeast
- 1T granulated sugar
- 1 3/4c lukewarm water
- 118g (118 ml) olive oil
- 4 large eggs
- 100g (1/2c) sugar
- 14g (1T) salt
- 1000g (8 to 8 1/2g flour
- 1 egg for finishing
- poppy seeds (optional)

### Steps
- you can half the recipe or bake one now and freeze the other one loaf
- in bowl of mixer disolve yeast and 1T sugar in 1 3/4c water
- whisk oil into yeast beat in eggs, sugar, salt
- add flour gradually with dough hook mix until combined
- knead until smooth
- cover with wrap let rise 1h until doubles
- punch down dough let rise 30m
- if making 2 loaves divide dough into two balls
- divide ball into 6 pieces
- roll each into strand about 12 inches long and 1 1/2 inches wide
- place parallel pinch end together
- move outside right over 2, second from left to far right, outside left over 2, secnd from right to far left, then repeat
- repeat until all braided, tuck ends underneath
- if freezing, freeze now.  when ready to bake leave out for 3-4 hours then brush with egg
- if baking immediately beat egg, brush over bread, let rise for 1 hour
- preheat oven to 375F, brush with egg again before baking
- bake 30-40m until golden, temp 190 in middle
